---
title: Mykál Umeg
in: Character Encyclopedia
desc: Mykál Umeg was a major contributor to the anti-Falwerk movement in Tareenia.
keywords: [Character]
---

**Mykál Umeg** was a founder of the Umeg Organization of Independent Education
(Tareen: Umegné Nyskopulyné Edukazyiné Orkányzyi, **UNEdO**)

## Early Life

Umeg was born on July 17th, 1926 in Cósiteki, Tareenia. He would spend his
entire life there, becoming a history teacher in a local school in 1935. He
would marry his wife, Marja, on December 15th, 1937. They would go on to have 3
children: Jotan, Kala and a third, unnamed stillborn child.

## Falwerk

Umeg would live through the entire Tareen Civil War, teaching through the chaos.
When the Tykian Armed Forces entered the country's capital, Wsólykki, he would
voice his concern with how the Tykians planned to "recover" the entire country.
It was widely known that Tykian was already having financial problems due to a
high extent of corruption in the Tykian government.

During a meeting of the school board on May 19th, 1967, Umeg voiced his concerns
about Falwerk. He was displeased with how vague the plans for the program were
and noted that it seemed the Tykians were trying to shoehorn their culture and
language into the Tareen schooling system and curriculum.

On May 26th, 1967, together with another teacher from the school, Juljan Sóbaj,
he would form the Umeg Organization of Independent Education (UNEdO). They would
organize protests to stop the construction of Falwerk centers and spread their
message as far as possible. The first protest took place on June 5th, 1967 in
the town of Kájanzyi, just north of Cósiteki. Although police were present
during the entire protest, following the crowd all the way back to the Cósiteki
city center. No police intervention occurred during the event.

The protests would continue to grow in the amount of people partaking in them,
mostly consisting of Tareen nationalists. A particularly violent protest took
place on March 1st, 1968 in Danakimyla. A total of 12 people ended up wounded
during the protest. It is notable that Umeg was not present during this and a
few preceding protests.

## Death & Umeg Campaign

On March 7th, 1968, a Tykian police officer entered Umeg's home with an arrest
warrant. The reason for the arrest was cited as "disrupting public peace and
inciting violence against police or government". Umeg would resist the arrest,
which lead to the police officer shooting him in the chest with his handgun. The
officer would then leave Umeg's house and return to the police station claiming
Umeg was not present. Umeg's death was reported around an hour later, when his
wife returned home from shopping. The police officer was revealed to be
24-year-old Sven Hagatra, who had joined the police force the year before. He
was tried for manslaughter and got sentenced to life in prison.

When the news of Umeg's untimely death broke, Juljan Sóbaj organized a massive
protest against Falwerk on March 30th, 1968. This would go on to be the largest
UNEdO protest.

Sóbaj would go on to form the Umeg Campaign (Tareen: Kampanyi e nom Umegné,
**KenU**) to fight Falwerk. Many expressed their displeasure of how Sóbaj
treated Umeg's name, noting that Umeg always protested peacefully and never hurt
anyone that opposed him. Other militaristic organizations would form in Umeg's
name, but few of them would be as impactful as KenU.
