---
title: "As I gaze"
desc: Short love story by qeaml.
---

# *As I gaze*

I laid on the sand and gazed at the stars. She laid beside me, letting out a
content sigh. Today was exhausting, I'd wager the best day of my life. An
awkward yet warm silence fell between us. "Today was great" I start the
conversation. "Yeah", she replies turning her head to me, "Why haven't we done
something like this before?". I roll over on my side to face her and place my
hand on her cheek. As my gaze falls deeper into her eyes, I feel a warmth I've
never felt before. I begun to drift off, staring. "Well" she suddenly rose, "I'm
really tired." I mimic her motion. "We should probably go home now" she adds
while standing up. I follow suit. We dust ourselves off and head to the car.
"Oh, to be young and in love..." I hear an older man to my right. I glanced over
to him and nodded, to which he nodded back. "You mind if I take a little nap?"
she asks, entering the passenger seat. "Not at all!" I start the car and prepare
to drive off. It was nigh pitch black, no earlier than midnight. I glimpsed to
the lonely elderly man: his happiness was gone. He must've lost the love of his
life and we made a grim reminder of it. I question "Was he truly happy to see
us? Or were we just a memory of a time long gone?" in my mind. "What happened?
Should I go back and cheer him up? Or was he putting a facade on not to ruin our
night?" were questions I fear have unsatisfying answers.

Fast-forward 3 or so hours later: she's fast asleep as I pull up outside the
apartment complex. I park the car and stop the engine. I reach to wake her up,
yet my hands stops dead in its tracks. She's paralyzingly cute. I ultimately
choose to carefully pick her up and carry her to bed. I put as much care in my
grip as though I was carrying a marble statue. As I laid her firmly in her bed,
I left a small kiss on her cheek, what snuck a smirk onto her face. She was not
the only thing I had to carry back from the car. After what felt like a dozen
trips to and fro, I finally placed myself under my bedsheets. I felt full. I
felt as if I've found a missing piece of myself. That piece was asleep in her
bed. I couldn't wait to see her again, and again, and again and many more a
time. With 2 AM on the click, I finally drift off in a peaceful slumber,
content.

~qeaml 05.02.2024
